//Of all the articles within the internet that include Waste Management as a subject, i found these relavant. These were very comprehensive, but was painstakingly downsized by a very sleepy Sree ser so as to not look too overkill (other than the content for the last card, which just doesnt seem to conclude without a dump of info), as he realises that he should never work on a project with a topic that deliberately takes the fun out of it and makes it a giant essay. Having said this, Sree ser logs off. Do contact him if u need him when u wake up because the dnd feature doesnt work anymore :( //



HOW MUCH WASTE IS GENERATED IN INDIA ?

India is getting buried under mounds of garbage as the country has been generating more than 1.50 lakh metric tonne (MT) of solid waste every day. Worse - approximately 90 per cent (1,35,000 MT per day) of the total amount is collected waste.
Nearly 15,000 MT of garbage remain exposed every day, resulting in almost 55 lakh MT of solid waste disposed in open areas each year, which leads to "severe" pollution level. Of the total collected waste, only 20 per cent (27,000 MT per day) is processed and the remaining 80 per cent (1,08,000 MT per day) is dumped in landfill sites.
Figures show that India generates nearly 26,000 MT of plastic waste on a daily basis and 94 lakh tonne trash every year.


HOW BAD IS IMPROPER WASTE MANAGEMENT ? 

Disposing of waste has huge environmental impacts and can cause serious problems. Some waste will eventually rot, but not all, and in the process it may smell, or generate methane gas, which is explosive and contributes to the greenhouse effect. Leachate produced as waste decomposes may cause pollution. Badly-managed landfill sites may attract vermin or cause litter. Incinerating waste also causes problems, because plastics tend to produce toxic substances, such as dioxins, when they are burnt. Gases from incineration may cause air pollution and contribute to acid rain, while the ash from incinerators may contain heavy metals and other toxins. 


WHAT CAN WE DO TO EFFICIENTLY MANAGE WASTE ?

Many don’t give a second thought to waste or the materials they discard. But there are many implications of waste, ranging from the inefficient use of raw materials to faulty products and wasted labour to the unnecessary use of energy.

Proper waste management involves the use of garbage as a valuable resource, usually by recycling items that don’t need to end up in a landfill yet. It is a process that involves not only garbage removal companies, but also households and businesses through the disposal of products they no longer have use for in a safe and efficient manner. 
Source Reduction and Reuse is the strategy most commonly used by governments and local authorities. Reducing waste at the source is achieved by expanding recycling efforts through creating recycling networks and providing on-site food waste treatment facilities at residential and commercial properties. The objective is to reduce the heavy reliance on raw materials that are continuously getting depleted, in an effort to conserve the environment. Municipal solid wastes that cannot be recycled are burned at high temperatures to reduce its volume by up to 80 percent. This means that the residue occupies 20 to 30 percent of the landfill space that would have been occupied by the solid waste, reducing the stress on landfills. Referred to as thermal treatment, this method can also be used to generate heat, gas, and steam for power. Composting is a natural bio-degradation process of organic wastes (kitchen waste and plant remains) that converts them into nutrient-filled food for plants. This is a common technique in organic farming, where the organic materials sit in one place for months to allow for decomposition. Proper waste management is important to avoid contamination, especially when the waste is hazardous. But more importantly, households and businesses should exercise waste minimization or waste avoidance, which involves recycling old items, repairing broken items, donating items no longer in use, avoiding the use of disposable items, etc., to reduce the amount of waste that will end up in landfills.

