https://www.orfonline.org/research/solid-waste-management-in-urban-india-imperatives-for-improvement-77129/
https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rsos.160764
http://iwms.nic.in/

India generates the most waste globally, says World Bank. Followed by US and then by China.


Do you know that the average American produces almost eight times more municipal solid waste than the average Indian?

Do you know that the average European produces far more e-waste than the average Indian?

Throughout most of history, the amount of waste generated by humans was insignificant due to low levels of population density and exploitation of natural resources. That past is now not even remotely close to our reality.

Education and awareness in the area of waste and waste management is increasingly important from a global perspective of resource management.

Waste management (or waste disposal) includes the activities and actions required to manage waste from its inception to its final disposal. This includes the collection, transport, treatment and disposal of waste, together with monitoring and regulation of the waste management process.

Waste management practices are not uniform among countries (developed and developing nations); regions (urban and rural areas), and residential and industrial sectors can all take different approaches.

Proper management of waste is important for building sustainable and livable cities, but it remains a challenge for many developing countries and cities. Effective waste management is quite expensive, usually comprising 20%–50% of municipal budgets.

In 2016, Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEF&CC), released the Solid Wastage Management (SWM) Rules, which rules replaced the Municipal Solid Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2000 which had been in place for 16 years. This national policy is notable in that it has acknowledged and included the informal sector (waste pickers) into the waste management process for the first time.

India generates approximately 133 760 tonnes of MSW per day, of which approximately 91 152 tonnes is collected and approximately 25 884 tonnes is treated.[https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rsos.160764#RSOS160764C12]

Urban India (about 377 million people) generates 62 million tonnes of municipal solid waste (MSW) each year. Of this about 43 million tonnes (70%) is collected and 11.9 million tonnes (20%) is treated. About 31 million tonnes (50%) is dumped in landfill sites.

With changing consumption patterns and rapid economic growth it is estimated that urban municipal solid waste generation will increase to 165 million tonnes in 2030.

By 2025, the waste management market size in India is projected to be worth ~USD 15 Billion with annual growth around 7 percent.

Myth: Biodegradable waste is eco-friendly
Truth: Many people assume that biodegradable waste is ok for the environment. Some also assume that it doesn’t need to be recycled because it breaks down naturally in landfills.
Biodegradable waste releases greenhouse gases in the forms of methane and carbon dioxide. When these greenhouse gases leak into our atmosphere, they take their toll on the environment – contributing to universal issues such as global warming.

Myth: Recycling solves all our waste problems.
Truth: Recycling is a valuable and promising process, but the current system is far from perfect. There are several long-range problems that need solutions, including the fact that most products are not actually designed for recycling. This means that it can be costly to recover and reprocess materials.

The Basel Convention, ratified by 172 countries, deprecates movement of hazardous waste from developed to less developed countries. The provisions of the Basel convention have been integrated into the EU waste shipment regulation.
